.TH NEXUS 1 "November 2025" "Nexus CLI 0.11.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nexus \- command-line interface for Nexus graph database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nexus
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fISUBCOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nexus
is the official command-line interface for interacting with Nexus graph database.
It provides commands for executing Cypher queries, managing users and API keys,
importing/exporting data, and administering the database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-url " " \fIURL\fR
Nexus server URL (default: http://localhost:3000).
Can also be set via NEXUS_URL environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-api\-key " " \fIKEY\fR
API key for authentication.
Can also be set via NEXUS_API_KEY environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-username " " \fIUSER\fR
Username for authentication.
Can also be set via NEXUS_USERNAME environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-password " " \fIPASS\fR
Password for authentication.
Can also be set via NEXUS_PASSWORD environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-profile " " \fINAME\fR
Connection profile name from configuration file.
Can also be set via NEXUS_PROFILE environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to configuration file.
Can also be set via NEXUS_CONFIG environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output results in JSON format.
.TP
.BR \-\-csv
Output results in CSV format.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Enable debug output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B query
Execute Cypher queries against the database.
.TP
.B db
Database management commands (ping, info, clear).
.TP
.B user
User management commands (list, create, get, delete).
.TP
.B key
API key management commands (list, create, get, revoke).
.TP
.B schema
Schema operations (labels, types, indexes).
.TP
.B data
Data import/export operations.
.TP
.B admin
Administrative operations (status, health, stats).
.TP
.B config
Configuration management.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Execute a Cypher query:
.B nexus query "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n.name"
.TP
Start interactive mode:
.B nexus query --interactive
.TP
Check server health:
.B nexus admin health
.TP
Create a new user:
.B nexus user create myuser --password secret --roles admin
.TP
Export data to JSON:
.B nexus data export backup.json --format json
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in a TOML file at:
.IP
Linux/macOS: ~/.config/nexus/config.toml
.IP
Windows: %APPDATA%\\nexus\\config.toml
.PP
Example configuration:
.PP
.nf
url = "http://localhost:3000"
username = "root"

[profiles.production]
url = "http://production:3000"
api_key = "your-api-key"
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NEXUS_URL
Default server URL.
.TP
.B NEXUS_API_KEY
Default API key.
.TP
.B NEXUS_USERNAME
Default username.
.TP
.B NEXUS_PASSWORD
Default password.
.TP
.B NEXUS_PROFILE
Default connection profile.
.TP
.B NEXUS_CONFIG
Path to configuration file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error.
.TP
.B 2
Connection error.
.TP
.B 3
Authentication error.
.TP
.B 4
Query error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/nexus/config.toml
User configuration file (Linux/macOS).
.TP
.I %APPDATA%\\nexus\\config.toml
User configuration file (Windows).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nexus-query (1),
.BR nexus-db (1),
.BR nexus-user (1),
.BR nexus-key (1)
.SH AUTHORS
HiveLLM Contributors <team@hivellm.org>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/hivellm/nexus/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 HiveLLM Contributors. Licensed under Apache-2.0.
